You will now learn about Eigenvalues and
Eigenvectors and
you'll see how you can use them to
reduce the dimension of your features.
>> First, I'll show you how to get
uncorrelated features for your data.
And then how to reduce the dimensions
of your word representations while
trying to keep as much information as
possible from your original embedding.
To perform dimensionality reduction
using PCA, begin with your original
vector space, then you get
uncorrelated features for your data.
And finally, you project your data
to a number of desired features that
retain the most information.
You may recall from algebra that matrices
have Eigenvectors and Eigenvalues.
You do not need to remember
how to get those right now,
but you should keep in mind that in PCA,
they are useful because the Eigenvectors
of the co-variance matrix from your data.
They give directions of
uncorrelated features and
the Eigenvalues are the variants of your
data sets in each of those new features.
So to perform PCA,
you will need to get the Eigenvectors and
Eigenvalues from the co
variance matrix of your data.
The first step is to get a set of
uncorrelated features for this step,
you mean normalize your data,
then get the covariance matrix.
And finally perform a singular
value decomposition to get a set of
three matrices.
The first of those matrices contain
the Eigenvectors stacked column wise and
the second one has
the Eigenvalues on the diagonal.
The singular vector decomposition is
already implemented in many programming
libraries, so you don't have
to worry about how it works.
The next step is to project your
data to a new sets of features.
You will be using the Eigenvectors and
Eigenvalues in this step,
let's denote the Eigenvectors with U and
the Eigenvalues with S.
First, you will perform the dot products
between the matrix containing your
word embeddings and the first n
columns of the U matrix.
Where N equals the number of dimensions
that you want to have at the end.
For visualization, it's common
practice to have two dimensions,
then you'll get the percentage of variants
retained in the new vector space.
As an important side note,
your Eigenvectors and
Eigenvalues should be organized according
to the Eigenvalues in descending order.
This condition will ensure that you retain
as much information as possible from your
original embedding.
However, most libraries order
those matrices for you.
Wrapping up, Eigenvectors from the co
variance matrix of your normalized data,
give the directions of
uncorrelated features.
The Eigenvalues associated with those
Eigenvectors tell you the variants of your
data on those features.
It dot products between your word
embeddings and the matrix of Eigenvectors
will project your data onto a new vector
space of the dimension that you choose.
You are now ready to implement PCA in
this week's assignment to visualize word
representations.
Good luck with that and
remember to have fun.
>> Congratulations,
you now know all about PCA and
you know all the steps required for
you to implement it.
Next week,
you will learn about vector spaces and
I'll show you how you can use them to
build a simple machine translation system.